# Generating-melodies-with-RNN-LSTM
Music melodies are nothing but sequences of notes and rest. So the melody generation problem can easily be viewed as a Time series prediction problem treating each melody as time series data. Melody dataset used for the work is the traditional folk melodies dataset that has 20000 songs from all over the world. Musical notes cannot directly be given into the model as the representation does not mean anything to the computer. Preprocessing the notation/MIDI has to be done in order to make the melodies into integers. The few steps are loading songs that are in kern data format,checking whether it has acceptable duration, transposing all the songs to two keys(C Maj,A min), encoding the songs into symbols, creating a single file containing all the songs, creating mapping for each symbol and generating training sequences for the model. For training one pass the chunks of melody into the model and predict the next note in the melody. Model use as RNN-LSTM architecture as the melodies have long term structural patterns and LSTMs are able to  capture long term temporal dependencies. Tools and softwares used are Keras/Tensorflow - for building deep learning models,music21 - for working on music symbolic representation data, Musescore - open source score editor where one can open,edit and share notations. The pre-processing steps have to be done in reverse order as the output of the model gives just the integers. Final outcome produces a nice melody generated by the model learning from all the data that is fed in.
